# Seminar on December 14, 2021

## Short Announcement

* __Theme:__ Process Improvement Patterns. Exploitative and Explorative
  Business Process Improvements

* __Presenter:__ Hans-Gert Gr√§be

## Abstract

The aim of all analytical efforts to verbalise business processes is to
improve them through targeted systemic transformations. _Systemic_ means the
(external and internal) demarcation of an area in the sense of our system
concept, which is subject to a targeted transformation.  _Targeted_ means that
an "ideal final result" in the sense of TRIZ is to be achieved. _Targeted
transformation_ means that this goal is prepared and evaluated by modelling
the system as well as a transition path that is subsequently rolled out. Not
only Business TRIZ assumes that such transformations follow certain Process
Improvement Patterns. Corresponding theoretical approaches are to be presented
and compared.

__Literature:__ (Rosemann 2020), (Lindskog 2018)

## Material

* [Slides](Slides.pdf)
* [Business Process Model Patterns Classification](http://bpmpatterns.org/)

## Remarks

The planned student presentation was cancelled at short notice, so the topic
had to be developed discursively on a quickly created basis. At the beginning,
the __status of the seminar objective__ achieved so far was presented once
again and the terms BP Modelling, BP Landscaping, BP Execution, BP Management
and BP Improvement were demarcated from each other.

We already observed earlier that with APQC-PCF, for example, there are
__established conceptual systems__ that _can_ be used for a real-world
structuring of the process landscape within a company and _should_ also be
used in order to achieve comparability with other companies. On the one hand,
such comparability is the basis for learning from the experiences of others.
In an advanced form, such a conceptual system is also the basis for a more
precise coordination of supply chain processes beyond company boundaries.

We are dealing with __two systemic levels of abstraction__ - the systemic
structure of the processes in the company and a cross-company systemic
structure. The latter seems strangely unbounded at first, in contradiction to
our postulate of the necessity of contextualisation of a system.  However,
when studying the APQC-PCF we observed that contextualisations on different
levels of abstraction play a role and that conceptual systems on a
cross-industry level as well as domain-specific conceptual systems for
individual industries are of importance. The latter have a more restricted
context, but are conceptually richer than the APQC-PCF at cross-industry
level. Here, the submersive character of the relation between the various
"reductions to essentials" of systems at different levels of abstraction
becomes visible once again.

This is particularly evident in the need to provide for a _controlled variety_
of concretisations for the practical implementation of general
conceptualisations in special enterprise modelling as _tayloring_ as is built
into the APQC-PCF hierarchy starting from the level of processes.

We learned about __BP Landscaping__ on the one hand as an instrument for BP
modelling of processes in the company related to each other and on the other
hand as an instrument for role-specific communication of parts of such models
and thus coupling the model to the real-world company processes. The
importance of this instrument for the further development of the company as a
_living organisation_ in the sense of Shchedrovitsky became less clear.  This
development is primarily driven by the comparison of the _justified
expectations_ derived from the modelling with the _experienced results_
derived from practice. Here, instruments of _measuring_ and _benchmarking_
play a central role, to translate the experienced results back into the model
language.

However, it is only from such a development perspective that problems can be
identified and solved (Shchedrovitsky: "You can only manage something that is
in motion." "A system without problems does not need to be managed."). Thus
the object of __BP Management (BPM)__ is determined as "the body of methods,
techniques, and tools to discover, analyze, redesign, execute and monitor
business processes" (Lindskog 2018). In this context, _discover_ and _analyse_
is directed at the identification of problems, _redesign_ at the planning of
changes initially in the model, _execute_ and _monitor_ at the practical
implementation of these changes and the monitoring of this transformation
process.  For this cyclic process, also referred to as the __BPM lifecycle__,
exists a greater variety of conceptualisations in the literature, see the
slides of the presentation for some of them.

__BP Improvement__ is a slight variation of the way to view on BPM. While BPM
focuses on _resilience_ and thus on conservative or conserving goals, BPI is
more concerned with looking at the _increment_ achieved in the course of
running through such a lifecycle.

According to (Rosemann 2020), this is also the difference between exploitative
and explorative improvement. The former serves to eliminate problems in the
"regular" behaviour and thus stabilise the system in the existing context. The
latter serves to find ways to adapt the system to (possibly drastically)
changing environmental conditions. The strategies thus refer to different
development paths of environmental conditions, whereby the field of
__exploitative improvements__ with the focus on better internal adaptation to
stable external conditions is clearly elaborated in the literature in more
detail.  __Explorative improvements__ are gaining in importance as the pace of
digital change increases. Rosemann's focus on _revenue resilience_, however,
is highly unspecific with regard to the _reasons_ for such change and focuses
on the revenue collapse as a sign of a need for action. The proposed process
improvement patterns remain at this level and do not search for possible
technical changes as the cause of the observed misery, i.e. they only treat
the symptoms.

The discussion focused on the concept of __patterns__ as a triple of problem,
context and solution (Christopher Alexander), under which successful
improvement strategies can be clustered. The _TRIZ patterns_, the _40
principles_ or the _76 standards_, are characterised by the fact that the path
from the problem to the solution is described and justified in more detail at
a suitable level of abstraction, whereas the process and business model
patterns are limited to the proposal of solutions.