# Seminar on November 16, 2021

## Short Announcement

* __Theme:__ Conceptual Systems and Coordination Processes in Agent-based
  Business Systems
* __Presenter:__ Stefan HÃ¤rtel

## Abstract

While classical business and management theories focus on managers with
sufficient authority, in our seminar we are mainly interested in business
processes in multi-stakeholder environments, where such interventional power
is usually not available. This is typical for prosumer approaches, where value
production is distributed between provider and customer. The agent-based
approach addresses such a distributed decision-making and responsibility
environment. The special features of the concepts compared to classical
business process approaches are to be worked out.

## Material

* [Handout](Handout.pdf)
* [Slides](Slides.pdf)

## Remarks

The presentation and discussion focused on the technical dimension of
agent-based systems, which is not surprising in the light of the existing
literature on that topic.

The focus was on agent-based systems in computer science, whereby the question
arose as to which characteristics distinguish such systems in the spectrum of
(distributed) component-based software architectures. If one analyses such
software architectures in more detail, specifics are to be mentioned above all
in the design of the communication concepts as well as the specific form of
the persistence layer and thus in the management of decentralised states. With
regard to the system concept developed in the seminar, however, this is a
central challenge - systems are _indecomposable_ in their process dimension,
which means that in most cases optimising the behaviour of the individual
agents does not lead to an optimal overall system. Optimisation of the overall
system requires corresponding system-global description forms and thus also a
suitable global state management in the distributed system. There are enough
conceptual approaches for this in computer science, how far they may be
applied in each individual cases. This elementary insight of systemic
modelling did not play a role in the preesentation and discussion.

Agent-based systems thus model a basic assumption of the free market concept -
the contract-based action of economic subjects as homines oeconomici
optimising private benefits leads to an optimal overall economic system. The
"blind hand of the market" and thus the "naturally" occurring economic
processes (TRIZ Principle 25: By itself) lead "behind the market participants"
in most cases to better results and are superior to regulatory interventions
in these processes. This belief is in blatant contradiction not only to the
importance of institutionalised procedures as pillar 2 in the 3-pillar concept
of technology developed in the lecture, but also to all _practical_ efforts to
standardise business processes, which were addressed in the two previous
seminar presentations (APQC PCF and Business TRIZ).

Agent-based approaches nevertheless represent an important field of gaining
experience for precisely such institutionalisation processes, if the
corresponding systems are regarded as developing systems that are still in an
early phase of interaction networking. Digital agent-based systems are a
particularly interesting field of experimentation in view of their easy
modifiability, where gaming approaches have recently enjoyed particular
popularity.

However, these experiences only become interesting when they are (or can be)
transferred to real-world multistakeholder systems. At the centre of
corresponding institutionalisation processes is the genesis and consolidation
of _system-global conceptual worlds_ to articulate and codify _global system
states_, which transcend local beliefs as new, emergent _systemic qualities_.
This process, which can still be controlled in the classical way within a
company in the direction of a _corporate identity_ under tight strategic
management, cannot be implemented in such a way in multi-stakeholder contexts.
The identification of suitable concepts how such forms of cooperative action
can be conceptually accompanied is the main concern of our seminar.

## From the Chat

- The concept of agent is understood in a very technical way here. Is the
  concept thus part of technical systems (according to Sommerville) as opposed
  to socio-technical systems (in the sense of Sommerville's distinction)?  See
  in particular the unconditional transfer to business systems at slide 30.

- Slide 5: The picture Agent - Environment is exactly the picture of a system
  as a black box, but no distinction is made between specification
  (feasibility) and operation (viability).  Is this irrelevant here?

- Slide 8: How exactly is the concept of "inner goals" to be understood?
  Systems (due to Ackoff) only begin meaningfully as "purposeful systems"
  (even technical systems have external purposes) and this is the basis also
  of our system notion.  What is the relationship between (inner) goals and
  (outer) purposes?

- Slide 7: "Properties of an agent" - this presupposes modelling.  Where does
  the context of these model notions come from?  Even more crude on slide 9 -
  a complete anthropomorphisation.

- Slide 8: "My goals" - I had also assumed this about people in the lecture
  with the concept of the I-core. What are "goals" here (compared to
  "purposes" and "objectives" - we also had this triad of terms earlier). But
  slide 16.
  - Goals are driving behaviour from inside, purposes from outside.
  - This is completely different to earlier notions in the seminar. 

- Slide 10-17: Here several agents appear as "components" (in our systemic
  approach) that are assembled into an interacting "system".  So it is about
  "engineering a system"?

- Slide 16: After slide 11 (implementation of the system, internal view), we
  move on to an external view. But isn't it the other way round in software
  engineering, with design and draft preceding implementation?

- Slide 20-25: From a systemic point of view, a distinction must be made
  between the organisational structure and the processual structure.  This
  view only looks at the processual structures.  What about the usual TRIZ
  structuring of technical systems (energy source, transmission, tool, action,
  object, control)?

- Slide 25: However, these action possibilities must already be created in the
  design.

- Slide 30: This pure "waterfall approach" was the subject of "Taylorism", but
  it has become apparent since the 1960s at the latest that working with
  "trained gorillas" does not meet the requirements of modern production
  organisations.

- Slide 34 and 38: What is "the cloud" in these pictures? System(s),
  connecting the given components? Why it remains so vague?

- Slide 38: To your comments: So machines are the better people?

- From slide 27 on, the approach is applied to processes _within_ a company.
  Which of the approaches can be transferred to multistakeholder systems in
  the context of business processes in value networks, i.e. to multi-manager
  contexts?
