# Seminar on November 30, 2021

## Short Announcement

* __Theme:__ Business Process Landscaping

* __Presenter:__ Toni Pfeiffer

## Abstract

Business Process Landscapes address the dynamisation of classically static
Supply Chains in modern agile distributed production systems. The
contradiction between profitability and reliability that has to be solved in
this context represents a significant conceptual and procedural challenge. It
can only be solved to a limited extent with Service Level Agreements.
Experiences and conceptual consolidations in this area are to be presented
based on the background of the business process concepts discussed earlier in
the seminar.

## Material

* [Handout](Handout.pdf)
* [Slides](Slides.pdf)

## Remarks

In contrast to the abstract, the significance of Business Process Landscapes
(BPL) or - better - Landscaping is not primarily in the representation of
cross-company Process Landscapes as a generalisation of supply chain
structures, but rather in the company-internal shaping of BP descriptions.

BPL is thus part of a systemic double relationship of shaping cross-company
description structures of practices on the one hand (BPMN, APQC-PCF) and
implementing such description structures in the special company on the other.
The first process of cross-company standardisation unfolds as a _systemic
development process_ on the background of the - time-delayed - unfolding of
_process instances_ of the second kind as systemic development processes at
company level.

This phenomenon of further development of a class itself in the course of its
repeated instantiations, unknown from (classical) OO programming, is an
essential phenomenon of the co-development of systemic structures at different
levels of abstraction. It plays a role in particular in the TRIZ construction
of the _System Operator_, which relates the developments of the supersystem
and the system, although the _multitude_ of systems related to an supersystem
is not addressed there since the considerations are centered at the (given)
system.

It was not clearly explained in the presentation and discussion what is the
connection between the development of uniform _structural_ concepts at the
supersystem level and the diversity of _procedural_ applications in the
individual BPL instances. We mentioned earlier that in the APQC-PCF, from the
process level onwards, _variations_ allow to adapt the standard to
company-specific conditions, which results in a direct correlation between the
mapping of the APQC-PCF structures and the BPL practices in the respective
company.

The reverse conditionality - the influence of experienced BPL practices on
those cross-company standardisation processes - remained completely out of
consideration, especially the importance of formalising and structuring
"experienced results" of a BP landscaping for the company-wide model
structures as a link between BPL practices and those standardisation
_processes_ that ultimately find their _structural_ expression in standards
such as the APQC-PCF.

## From the Chat

- What is the difference between Business Process Modelling and Business
  Process Landscaping?

(1) Landscaping is a specific form of BP modelling of parts of a company in
the context of an initially vague company-wide conceptual system. Both are in
a co-evolutionary relationship to each other which leads to the emergence of
several interconnected systems with different delineation on the one hand and
reduction to different "essentials" on the other.

- Organisational chart vs. map - corresponds to the distinction between
  structural organisation and process organisation? But process organisation
  is also the subject of Business Process Modelling.

- Static vs. dynamic? In the flowchart on slide 4 there are branches, on slide
  5 only linear process flows are shown.  How is this to be understood?

(2) This remained unclear. A major problem of any process modelling is the
_structural_ representation of dynamics, which in the systemic context
manifests itself as a contradiction between _decomposability_ in the
structural dimension (analysis) and _indecomposability_ in the operational
dimension (synthesis). BPM aims at a _structural_ representation of Business
Processes and therefore decomposes the indecomposable. Different forms are
used - for example, for the representation of branches and networks of
processes (such as BP lanes and elements of process logics) or for the
representation of sequential processes (such as sequence diagrams). Such a
distinction was missing.

- Dynamic BPL. They are used to present different specialised views for
  different roles.  What is the relationship between processes and views?

(3) The relationship between the overall picture and individual pictures
remained unclear. Both directions are conceivable and useful in different
contexts - assembling and harmonising the individual pictures into an overall
picture as well as breaking down the overall picture into role-centred
individual pictures. In both perspectives, the question is whether there is
assumed a simple _immersive_ connection in which the whole (only) appears as
the sum of its parts, or a more complex _submersive_ connection with different
"reductions to the essentials" in the overall and individual perspectives.

- In APQC-PCF there are two other structural conceptual levels above the
  process level. What role do they play here (slide 8)?

- How does this relate to ISO 9001 (your handout) and other reference models?

- Support Process = Non-value adding, but absolutely necessary.  How is this
  to be understood? Doesn't this also apply to management processes?

(4) Here, the special way how infrastructural services contribute to the
account of value creation would have to be argued in more detail. Classically,
two mechanisms play a role here: 1. advanced capital and return on investment
calculations and 2. flat rate overheads. However, both approaches are not very
suitable to include _individual_ infrastructure processes in value balance
calculations in a really differentiating way.

- So BPL presupposes a precise BP model and only serves to explain the model?
  - No, see (1).

- BPL as a descriptive companion to the "living process".  How is this used to
  process the feedback loop between "living process" and process description?
  To what extent is BPL a tool for _developing_ such process landscapes?
  - See (1).

- SIPOC - what are the links to agent-based approaches?  In this structure
  (slide 14), contradictions are to be processed.

Ralf Laue : On the role of upcoming Service Blueprinting as a deeper view on
processes. <https://kurzelinks.de/8gef>

(5) This is an interesting additional approach that combines process modelling
with the outcome perspective, which is missing in BPL. Possibly the
relationship between externalisation and internalisation is repeated here -
the excavator driver drives the excavator (externalised perspective, mastering
the tool is in the foreground) or digs a hole (internalised perspective, using
the tool is in the foreground).