# Seminar on November 23, 2021

## Short Announcement

* __Theme:__ Coordination Processes in SCOR - the Supply Chain Operations
  Reference Model

* __Presenter:__ Hans-Gert Gr√§be

## Abstract

A typical context of distributed business processes is met in supply chains.
SCOR extends the classical business process concepts with terms that can be
used to verbalise, process and evaluate various specific problems in such
supply chains.  These concepts are to be introduced, discussed and classified.

## Material

* [Handout](Handout.pdf)
* [Slides](Slides.pdf)

## Remarks 

The handout once again presents the basic structure of the line of
argumentation followed in the seminar. It starts from "classical" company
modelling on the basis of the APQC-PCF, whereby a distinction is also made
between a strategic and an operative management level as independent systemic
contexts with their own "reductions to essentials" and conceptual systems
corresponding to the respective reduction.

Classical _management theories_ focus on supporting an appropriately
authorised individual leader in the operational area to develop leadership (in
Shchedrovistky's understanding) in order to _implement_ the given goals (as a
_specification_) in his or her area of responsibility with the allocated
resources (personnel, material, time). Classical _business process modelling_
is more oriented towards management (in Shchedrovistky's understanding),
i.e. the modelling and thus the description of the (technical) processing in
such a context.

Classical operational management is strongly oriented towards instruments of
direct control.  In contrast to this are agent-based approaches with
instruments of indirect control, even though these aspects were not further
illuminated in the last seminar, which dealt with agent-based approaches. Such
instruments of indirect control also play a role at the level of strategic
management, where decision-making processes have to take into account complex
conditions arising from both external corporate goals and the internal
reproduction requirements of production conditions. The similarity of
relationships between different corporate divisions at the strategic level to
agent-based approaches was illuminated in more detail.

This also bridged the gap to supply chain management and the structures of
business relationships between independent third parties, for which SCOR is
developing a reference model.  The presentation refers to a paper from 1997
and develops the problem from a principled point of view. Due to time
constraints, more recent developments could not be taken into account.

The entire seminar was used to present the slides, so there are no chat
recordings.