# Seminar on November 02, 2021

## Short Announcement

* __Theme:__   PCF - The APQC Process Classification Framework
* __Presenter:__ Piotr Teitlin

## Abstract

With more than 550 member organizations worldwide, APQC (American Productivity
& Quality Center) is the world’s foremost authority in benchmarking, best
practices, process and performance improvement, and knowledge management (KM).

Standardised descriptions of business processes play a special role in this
context.  In the seminar, on the one hand, the specific role of such an
industry consortium in standardisation processes should be presented and, on
the other hand, the systematics of modelling and terms developed in this
process should be discussed in more detail and their relation to systemic
thinking be examined.

__Literature:__ APQC’s Process Classification Framework (PCF), additional
recherche required

## Material

* [Handout](Handout.pdf)
* [Slides](Slides.pdf)

## Remarks

In the presentation, PCF was introduced as a system of concepts that is very
important in the US in describing the structure of business processes.  In a
five-level hierarchy, corporate decision-making structures can be described in
an increasingly refined approach.

Processes are first assigned to _Categories_ that can be used to describe and
plan essential strategic corporate aspects both for Operating Processes (from
1.0 "Vision and Strategy" to 6.0 "Manage Customer Service") and for the
Management of Resources and Support Processes (from 7.0 "Develop and Manage
Human Capital" to 13.0 "Develop and Manage Business Capabilities"). The
categories describe _strategic planning fields_ of corporate development and
are in a mutual tension as components in an overall corporate strategy as the
first systemic level of description.

For each such component, _Process Groups_ are defined as refinements of the
strategic planning fields, whose interaction on a smaller-scale operational
time scale implements the process-related challenges of the strategic planning
field. This corresponds to a hierarchical structural model as it is also known
from TRIZ.

While a largely uniform system structure is postulated on the first two levels
of PCF, the third level, _Processes_, in addition to core elements provides
for variants and reworks. This takes into account the character of the
framework as a _Meta-Model_, because it must be able to be broken down to many
_specific_ business process model instances of different companies with very
specific and heterogeneous requirements. These specific business process model
instances are in turn in tension with the _real_ business processes that they
describe, plan and model.

The performance of a framework is also determined by the extent to which it is
able to map this three-stage instantiation process in a result-oriented
manner.  The three stages - the meta-model of the framework, the special
business process model of a company and its business practice - are associated
with the two feedback loops between the business process model of the company
and reality on the one hand and between the variety of such "real" business
process models and the meta-model on the other hand. This important connection
remained underexposed in the presentation and discussion.

It also remained open which _implicit prerequisites_ the PCF assumes for its
basic structuring of business processes, i.e. on which _meta-meta concepts_ it
builds. In the discussion it turned out that APQC is a largely American
standard, tailored to American legal and contractual structures and therefore
hardly used in Europe. A comparison with relevant European or German
standards, such as the __V-Modell XT__ or __ISO 15504__ "Software Process
Improvement and Capability Dtermination", would therefore be interesting in
order to better understand this meta-meta level.  The latter standard in
particular comes with a reference model that can be adapted to _different_
process and process assessment models. The standard presupposes already in its
first development stage "performed" that a basic project-like production or
service structure has been introduced in the company, which allows
_activities_ to be defined in terms of _time_ and _resource_ bounds and _key
events_ (APQC) or _KPI - key performance indicators_ (SPICE).  Especially in
agile environments this is not self-evident. "No formal process management
within the organisation" counts as one of the main reasons why organisations
don’t adopt a framework (APQC 2021). 

Finally, the difference to classical BP modelling should be addressed, in
which process flows, sequences, branches and variants in various logical
combinations (BPMN) or questions of the execution conditions of such processes
(BPEL) play a role. This corresponds to our general observation that systems
always have to process the dialectical contradiction between decomposability
and indecomposability. This contradiction is articulated in the field of
tension between _function_ and _process_. In the context of an analysis of the
organisational structure, _functions_ can be very finely decomposed into sub-
and sub-sub-functions. In the _process view_, however, these functions must
then prove their ability to interact by transforming sequentially _work
products_ (resources) into suitable forms. Only an assembled system can be
operated.

In this sense, APQC is directed at the organisational structure of a company
and thus also at management, but understood in the sense of (Shchedrovitsky
2014), who clearly distinguishes management from leadership by focusing on the
planning quality of management. With the two dimensions _benchmarking_ and
_content management_, two further planning dimensions are addressed in the
corporate context - the planning of the evaluation (assessment) of activities
and the planning of planning and access structures.

Hans-Gert Gräbe, Nov 8, 2021

## From the Chat

Hans-Gert Gräbe:

- If I understand it correctly, PCF is a framework for business processes
  _inside_ a company, so it has a slightly different orientation than SCOR.
  What is the relationship to BPMN and comparable standards?
  - Rather weak, PFC is directed towards business process in their
    _structural_ dimension, BPMN rather addresses the "processing of
    processes".

- What is the role of APQC in Europe? How does it relate to OMG and other
  standardisation contexts?
  - Ralf: APQC plays an important role in Northern America, but is less
    important in Europe.
  - APQC PCF seems to be more a framework for description of the structural
    organisation of a company and less for the relations between different
    process elements, as BPMN is, that is standardised by the OMG.
  
- Comparison with competitors: For this, the relevant models or data would
  have to be made public. How and to what extent is this done?
  - The standard has the role of a _metamodel_, not a model.  Hence internal
    to a company process models have similar structures, external partners
    have a certain understanding about the structure of the internal
    processes, but the model has not to be disclosed in its entirety.  On the
    other hand, APQC provides consultancy and assessments and provides
    aggregated information from such processes.
    - Organizations use APQC’s Open Standards Benchmarking assessments to
      understand the performance of their processes relative to their peers.
      Launched in 2004, Open Standards Benchmarking - or OSB - is powered by
      the world’s largest database of process measures and validated
      performance metrics, provided by thousands of organizations from around
      the world in nearly every industry. APQC collects performance
      information from these organizations, validates it, analyzes it, and
      then publishes the resulting metrics in a blinded fashion, protecting
      participant confidentiality and the integrity of the benchmarks.
      ([Source](https://www.apqc.org/what-we-do/benchmarking/open-standards-benchmarking))

- Benchmarking: What is the relationship to processes there? Is benchmarking
  not also a process?
  - Benchmarking is a way of comparative performance measurement and as such a
    _tool_ within processes of evaluation (internal) and assessment
    (external).
    
- Content management: Is the content global or how is content assigned to
  processes? In the example, content is assigned to one (or more?) processes.

- Process Groups - More detailed grouping in specific contexts is plausible.
  But which four _general_ process groups are delineated?
  - This probably refers only to the Process Groups in the Category 1.0.

- What are _key elements_? The term _element_ did not occur in the hierarchy.
  Is this a generic term for category, process group, ...?
  - (APQC 2018) uses the term _process element_ as generic term for category,
    process group, ... and 'key' in several connotations.

- Benchmarking application: Does this not initially apply to benchmarking
  processes _within the company_ (i.e. Metcalf's Law is not actually
  relevant).  To what extent is the methodological dimension and not only the
  process dimension of benchmarking also standardised?
  - See above on APQC’s Open Standards Benchmarking 

- Content management application: Rights are important for the visibility of
  content by different stakeholders. This is an essential structural element
  of the system (aspect decomposability), which is in contradiction to the
  process dimension (aspect indecomposability).  At least that was our
  theoretical understanding of the system concept.
  - Content management seems to be only a minor topic in the PCF standard, the
    only reference in (APQF 2018) I found in _8.4.4. Manage business
    information content_

- Process Improvement: Modelling the processes is an important prerequisite.
  How to deal with the difference between model and reality?

- Subdivision into 4 levels: What about level 5 "Task"?

- Video: Column "Metrics available" - what is this about? 
  - See above on APQC’s Open Standards Benchmarking 

- What is the (common) basic metadata structure of a single element in the
  framework?

Sources:
* https://www.apqc.org/system/files/resource-file/2020-02/PPM-IntroPCF.pdf
* https://www.apqc.org/system/files/resource-file/2020-01/PPM-UnderstandingPCFElements.pdf
* https://www.apqc.org/system/files/resource-file/2020-01/PPM-ApplyingPCFforBusinessValue_0.pdf
* https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/process-classification-framework-calvin-kiboma
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0EstDPyr1c
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=--mO-dAC28s
* https://www.apqc.org/resource-library/resource-listing/apqc-process-classification-framework-pcf-aerospace-and-defense-0