# Seminar on November 09, 2021

## Short Announcement

* __Theme:__   Business TRIZ
* __Presenter:__ Michelle Bindel

## Abstract

Business TRIZ is a development direction within systematic innovation
methodologies in which contradictory requirements and problematic situations
in the area of management in companies are considered and the classic tools of
TRIZ are examined for their applicability and need for modification in this
non-technical area. In these developments it becomes clear on the one hand to
what extent engineering methods have already found their way into modern
management. On the other hand, the necessary modifications of classical TRIZ
tools required in these applications lead to a better understanding of
overarching systemic phenomena.

__Literature:__ (Souchkov 2010), (Souchkov 2014), (Souchkov 2017), (Souchkov
2019)

- Results of Business TRIZ Online Spring 2021
  <http://wumm.uni-leipzig.de/conferences.php?conference=http://wumm.uni-leipzig.de/rdf/BusinessTRIZ-2021.rdf>
- <http://xtriz.com/>
- Handreichung zum TRIZ-Praktikum

## Material

* [Handout](Handout.pdf)
* [Slides](Slides.pdf)

## Remarks

The aim of the presentation was to put the approaches pursued in Business TRIZ
and its tools and methods in the larger context of description and analysis
possibilities of business processes and models discussed in our seminar.

In my comments on the last seminar I referred to three levels - practice,
model, meta-model - which are to be distinguished in different management
theories. While APQC PCF focused on the structure-building meta-level, it was
noted in the discussion that the Business TRIZ toolbox is mainly applied at
the modelling level of real-world business activities.

The question of the conceptual basis and associated structural prerequisites
on which the effect of these tools can unfold - for the PCF this was a
five-level structure with the largely fixed levels of _category_ and _process
group_ and possibilities for variance at the levels of _process_, _activity_
and _task_ - remained largely open, but is marked more precisely in (Souchkov
2010) with the definition of the term _business model_ and the four _component
groups_ of _value proposition_, _profit formula_, _key activities_ and _key
resources_. This structuring is broken down further into _business model
building blocks_ and _bulding block patterns_. Here, a comparison with the
categorical approaches of PCF remains interesting.

In (Souchkov 2019), the conceptual network is further differentiated and a
_business innovation roadmap_ is proposed, which is oriented towards a general
further development of business models.

In the presentation itself, Business TRIZ was mainly presented as a large
toolbox of instruments for various not specified more precisely purposes. The
contradiction in TRIZ itself between the variety of tools and the claim of a
systemically driven general framework as a uniform process model was addressed
in rudiments on slide 24, in which three abstraction levels of entrepreneurial
transformation demand were assigned to the three levels of a Business TRIZ
certification. The connection is deeper, however, and only becomes clear when
the multitude of tools are placed in a uniform development cycle of analysis,
synthesis and evaluation, which embeds corporate development in a field of
tension between justified expectations and experienced results, as is
discussed in (Ackoff 1997), for example.

## From the Chat

- Your slides and the handout are in English.  Is it correct that the slides
  and handouts of the seminar are in German?  What language is expected for
  the seminal paper at the end of the semester?
  - All written documents should be in English. Unfortunately, this was not
    taken into account in the two previous student handouts.  I'm also
    translating the chat into English afterwards and add essential parts of
    the discussion in the corresponding README file.

- On which modelling level of business processes (company-specific,
  inter-company as APQC) is Business TRIZ located?  What are the basic
  concepts?
  - See my remarks.

- What understanding of business model does Business TRIZ start from?
  - See my remarks.

- Slide 9: How technical and physical contradiction are connected?

- How exactly is the principle of ideality to be understood? How are the
  "values" to be quantified? Why are "costs" in the denominator and not
  subsumed as "value reducers" as in classical revenue accounts?
  - This was not discussed.

- Your examples on Trends of System Evolution (general systems?) refer to
  technical systems only? Are there also (special) Trends of _Business_ System
  Evolution?  What is the connection to the topic of "business innovation"?
  - This was not discussed.

- Functional Analysis: The system must be delimited beforehand. What
  preliminary work is necessary for the application of this method and how
  does it fit into the overall modelling process?
  - See The AIPS-2015 Phase Model in (Gräbe 2021, Figure 4)

- Slide 15: What are the concepts behind the individual graphic elements? How
  is the basic TRIZ pattern "tool -> acts on -> object" realised there?
  - This was not discussed.

- RCA+ (Root Conflict Analysis) is a further development of RCA (Root Cause
  Analysis) and CECA (Cause Effect Chain Analysis) and not vice versa. Slide
  17 first illustrates CECA, the evaluation with + and - shows the existing
  contradictions.
  - For RCA and the relation between these tools see, e.g. (Abramov 2015)

- The classical Contradiction Matrix is based on the analysis of a large
  number of patents, from which also the Inventive Principles were derived.
  What is the basis of the Business Contradiction Matrix and the Business
  Inventive Principles?
  - See (Mann/Dewulf 2003) and (Borgianni et al. 2021)
  
- Example Online Learning in Corona times: The solution leads to new
  contradictions? This solution also breaks down an old static structure (of
  teaching in the university).

- Slide 25: Souchkov later formulated a clear "stage-gate-process" with 4
  stages "defining", "analysis", "generation", "selection". How is this
  connected?
  - See (Souchkov 2019)

## Additional Literature

- Oleg Y.  Abramov (2015). TRIZ-Based Cause and Effect Chains Analysis
  vs. Root Cause Analysis Proceedings of the TRIZfest-2015.
  - <http://matriz.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/TRIZfest-2015-conference-Proceedings.pdf>
- Russell. L. Ackoff (1997). Strategies, Systems, and Organizations: An
  Interview with Russell L. Ackoff.  Stragegies and Leadership 2-3 (1997),
  p. 22-27.
- Yuri Borgianni, Lorenzo Fiorineschi, Francesco Saverio Frillici, Federico
  Rotini (2021) The process for individuating TRIZ Inventive Principles:
  deterministic, stochastic or domain-oriented? Design Science 7.  
  - <http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/dsj.2021.12>
- Hans-Gert Gräbe (2021). Solving problems with TRIZ and AIPS-2015. Handout on
  the TRIZ Methodology.
  - <http://www.informatik.uni-leipzig.de/~graebe/Material/TRIZ-Methodik.pdf>
- Darrell Mann, Simon Dewulf (2003).  Updating the contradiction matrix.
  TRIZCON 2003.
